# GACD-Project

## Code Description

This script assumes a couple of things that weren't very clear in the instructions:

1. That all the data presented in the folders was to be used and included as part of the tables that needed to be merged.
2. That the instructions about what had to be done over the data could be done in any order, given that the result was as required. 
3. The names of variables were sufficiently clear as presented in the "features" txt file.
 
Given this, the code works as follows:

1. Downloads the file from internet.
2. Unzips the files.
3. Moves the working-space according to the needs to read the txt files.
4. Reads the different txt files and stores them in memory. 
5. Names variables according to the features and activity files, of by their file names (in the case of Internal Signals).
6. Column-binds the subject, activities, features and internal signals for the test and train data. 
7. Row-binds the test and train data.
8. Melts data by id information (subject, index and activities).
9. Filter the variables related to means and standar deviations.
10. Reorders data in a tidy way: 1 observation per row and 1 variable per column.


## Code Book

### Generated by code
The values, data and variables generated by the code are as follows:

* "Xtest": contains features' test data.     
* "Xtrain": contains features' train data.
* "activities": contains full name with numeric equivalent for activities measures. 
* "data.final": test and train data binded and melted by id, subject and activities. 
* "data.test": full test data. 
* "data.tidy": mean of variables presented in 1 observation per row and 1 variable per column.
* "data.total": binds test ans train data.
* "data.train": full test data. 
* "features": contains names of features in Xtest and Xtrain data frames.
* "filter": logical vector with "TRUE" for features containing mean and std.
* "istest": names of variables in test Internal Signals.
* "istestlist": list of data for test internal signals vectors.
* "istrain": names of variables in train Internal Signals.  
* "istrainlist": list of data for train internal signals vectors.  
* "subjecttest": subject test data.
* "subjecttrain": subject train data.
* "ytest": index of test activities.
* "ytestl": index and name of test activities.      
* "ytrain": index of train activities.   
* "ytrainl": index and name of train activities.

### In tidy data

The variables available in the tidy data data frame are the ones that follow:

 [1] "subject"                         "label"                          
 [3] "tBodyAcc-mean()-X"               "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"              
 [5] "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"               "tBodyAcc-std()-X"               
 [7] "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"                "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"               
 [9] "tGravityAcc-mean()-X"            "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"           
[11] "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"            "tGravityAcc-std()-X"            
[13] "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"             "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"            
[15] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"           "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"          
[17] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"           "tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"           
[19] "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"            "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"           
[21] "tBodyGyro-mean()-X"              "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"             
[23] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"              "tBodyGyro-std()-X"              
[25] "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"               "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"              
[27] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"          "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"         
[29] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"          "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"          
[31] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"           "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"          
[33] "tBodyAccMag-mean()"              "tBodyAccMag-std()"              
[35] "tGravityAccMag-mean()"           "tGravityAccMag-std()"           
[37] "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"          "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()"          
[39] "tBodyGyroMag-mean()"             "tBodyGyroMag-std()"             
[41] "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"         "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"         
[43] "fBodyAcc-mean()-X"               "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"              
[45] "fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"               "fBodyAcc-std()-X"               
[47] "fBodyAcc-std()-Y"                "fBodyAcc-std()-Z"               
[49] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X"           "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y"          
[51] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z"           "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"          
[53] "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"           "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"          
[55] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"            "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"           
[57] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"            "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X"      
[59] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y"       "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z"      
[61] "fBodyGyro-mean()-X"              "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"             
[63] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"              "fBodyGyro-std()-X"              
[65] "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"               "fBodyGyro-std()-Z"              
[67] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X"          "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y"         
[69] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z"          "fBodyAccMag-mean()"             
[71] "fBodyAccMag-std()"               "fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()"         
[73] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"      "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"      
[75] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()"  "fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"        
[77] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"          "fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()"    
[79] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"     "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"     
[81] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()"

